Good afternoon. Yeah. So welcome to our debate now. But when the three of us sat down and said, hey, all y'all think, like, what do you think the sole obligation of a firm is to create wealth for its shareholders at all cost ? We all scratch your head and say, gosh, let it was quite think that so what could we have a conversation about that really could tease out the nuance of this issue. We changed the world, so the new motion, as we declare it, and i'm gonna ask you to vote on this in a second. So, listen up carefully is the primary obligation of a firm is to create wealth for its shareholders at all cost. Now, if you think that is true, please, right now, raise your hand. Okay, ryan, you can have a little work on this if you think that it's not true. If you disagree, raise your hand. All right, all right, hands down. Now, here is the thing. At least half of you did not raise your hands at all in twenty minutes. We're gonna give you another choice. We're going to be another chance. You're going to determine the winner of our debate after this conversation today we have here. Ryan carson he's, the founder and ceo of tree house. He is going, teo argue in favor of our motion and arguing against her emotion is christine herron from intel cabin. Each of them gets five minutes. Then we will have a conversation. Then we will have a closing statement and i will try to summarize it and you'll vote again with that. Ryan sounds great. Nice to see you all. I'm a bit of a wanderer, so i'm not going to stay behind my little podium. It stresses me out. So, first of all, the other pole who here is a founder ceo type person. Okay, uh, who here works for a company ? And how many of you are investors ? A few. Okay, got it. And how many of you have raised venture capital like a few ? Ok, not many inching. Okay, so i am going to argue the point that as soon as you take money from investor, you are morally obligated to deliver shareholder value. That is a choice that you make even if you don't like it. And i wantto stress that that's an important choice because most of us start companies because we believe in fixing something, right ? We believe it. But if you choose to take money than europe obligated to return charge value. So what do you do ? Well, i believe that you have to change the timeline that you think about. So if you're delivering shareholder value often you're told i need to do this in two years or three years or five years, max, but the reality is you have to have the correct timeline that matches the solution to the problem you're solving. So this happened at tree house, so we we're bootstrapped were profitable, and i started the company to empower people to get jobs. We teach people how to code and i am extremely mission driven. Then i decided, take venture. Capital, and at that moment, i didn't truly realize that means i am now morally obligated to deliver show shareholder value, so we had to work out a way where i explained to my investors, i'm going to deliver shareholder value to you, but it's going to take as long as it takes, right ? So we have a decades long view on this that treehouse we help companies create talyn and it's going to take time to change the system, and i would like you to come along on that journey with me so you must return to our hall of value, but it's got to be over the correct timeline, and that has to be clear to your investors. So one example of this is that we've taught over a hundred fifty thousand people had a code over the last eight years. I'm very proud of that, but then i actually looked at the people that were coming out of tree house and realize that most of them are white males. So i'm not actually delivering on the promise that i started the company. So we started to dig in, and we started to work with the boys and girls club to source talent and we started to place those folks as apprentices and companies. And so now we can actually help companies create diverse talent and we can invest and people that aren't getting a chance and that takes time. So delivering that value it's taken us eight years to figure that out, and now companies are coming to treehouse and saying, we want you to help us create diverse talent and invest in town, but that took time. It takes time to deliver that bag. So have a long term perspective. Make sure your investors understand that you can deliver value and you will deliver value but will take time. Thank you very much, ryan. Okay, so moving on to christine, i will repeat the motion she will need arguing against the primary obligation of a firm is to create wealth for its shareholders at all cost. Yes, it sounds very ruthless at all costs. Emily ruthless in certain areas and a little. I'm a southern mom. So there's a little ruthlessness for that. So so first i would want to push back as an investor on something that ryan said because i am a bit rebutting. Which was that there was a moral obligation, that he had to provide a financial return to his investors. And i actually don't believe that's the moral obligation that's the business obligation. So that doesn't absolve a firm from having moral obligations, however, but it's important to understand, which is which on dh. So you have your business obligations which are around making money around, you know, sort of building something sustainable, you know ? And this is we were joking backstage a bit about your innit ? You know, people are in it for the big bucks, not the quickbooks quickbooks cut corners all you want, you're going tohave, you know, plenty of fun doing quick bucks that way, but she won't make the big bucks that way. So presuming you're doing big bucks and you're not cutting quarters, no thinking about moral obligations gets, too. How do you treat your employees ? You know, do you have inclusive behaviors ? You know, are you, you know, putting products out into the world that hurt people knowing, like, and then there's, this weird gray area, which sort of combines your business in moral obligations, what's his legal and ethics and some of the rules and some of them have rules and some of them don't. But you know, if you're going to be the kind of place people want to work, you probably have some ethics lying around. And so i would agree that if you're going to invest university, that is a long term game takes time to change ingrained cultures, but it also will kill some short term get wins about returns. And so for example, i think most folks in the room have probably heard the stats about women make on average, you know, seventy cents on the dollar, right ? If you look it's sort of for the same jobs that actually carries over into investing, if you look at women and how people talk about women, lead companies actually produce a better return than a male lead company. Well, part of that might be because they had to be better to get funding in the first place, which is what most people assume, but a big piece of it is because it's an undervalued asset it's justice, true for investing in team, says it is for buying real estate, so if you have an undervalued asset and you get in cheaper guess what, you're going to make more money when you accept that asset later. So i am in theory, working against my own purpose to make money for in self by going out and telling people to go invest in women and go invest in minorities and invest in military veterans and these other types of entrepreneurs that are undervalued by our current system. But they're building fabulous companies, and so if i create more competition for those deals, i'm going to have to pay more money. I'm an idiot, i shouldn't be doing this, but that's the worlds that i want to live in and unfortunate that i work at a firm that wants that to be the world that it operates and does business. So i don't believe that's the sole obligation is to make money, because if it did, our diversity initiative will be very, very quiet. There would be no announcements, we wouldn't tell anyone that we're trying to direct those dollars in that way, it would be like a secret r and d project, so the fact that it's public means exactly the opposite we feel that as someone with a platform, we have an obligation to use that platform. Okay. Are you ready to rest there ? All right, let's, get into it. I want to start with something that i heard both of a theme that i heard both of you hit on, which is the tension that exists between business, obligation and moral obligation. Do you know what i want to start with ryan ? Then go to christine. Do you think that it is possible for business, obligation and moral obligation to be the same thing ? Can you create a business where they are ostensibly the same ? Yes. I think you can create a business that is morally and business objectively. Aline and i can say that because that's, what the hell does that mean ? We truly believe that by empowering and investing in people that aren't getting opportunity, get jobs. It creates value for treehouse clearly. But it also is morally good. And i think he's the best companies air morley aligned with their business objective and their powerful so that's the good side of that you can do that. That's. A dc. Why i get up every day. That's. Why i gotta work. So, yes, that the challenge comes. When they're no, no, no, you have to make the hard decisions. I honestly, i couldn't run, i couldn't run a company where they weren't aligned, and i think as a founder you have to decide is this so important to me ? Is the mission something i truly believe in ? Then i will go to bat for, and i will i could eventually kind of die on the hill doing if the answer is no, then don't do it. It won't work because you will be tested and asked to return shareholder value, and if it goes against your morals, you either have to be immoral. You have to not do it, so we're senior out. They're investing, talking to lots of different types of companies, do you ? Do you see a lot of companies where the business obligation in the moral obligations are in fact, directly in alignment ? Mostly they're not write and write and it's not because they're opposed for, say, it's just that if you have a company and your job is to make robots that can clean eso, for example, great, interesting why c company that has a giant drone which goes up and cleans wind. Turbines, which is really freaking cool, by the way, but that company's moral obligation is not necessarily important, you know, as you know, entrepreneurs of that company it's not relevant, necessarily to their success in being able to get, you know, a flying robot up to clean a wind turbine successfully and cost effectively. So so i don't think it's always the lines now you do have alignment like that and a lot of businesses now that are not necessarily double bottom line businesses, but they're very much like double line. But bella, bottom line businesses where and that if you haven't heard that tournaments means that you have both a financial return, you're going for in an impact that you're going for. So, you know, ryan might not your funders might not be double line investors, but they certainly are aware of the impact he has and, like many non profits that are social in nature, if you are truly successful, you put yourself out of business, right ? Like, if you have true parody in the workplace, you don't need folks to go out and make sure there's a path to employment, and folks were getting trains that might not be in the workforce, otherwise you don't run a soup kitchen if everyone's got enough food already. All right, so i have a question then. So what ? What if the right thing to do to deliver long term shareholder value and the moral thing to do is long term ? And and either investors aren't prepared to wait or the market's not prepared to wait for you to deliver that. I mean, in the good i was talking about friends last night. I'm like, i think it's gonna take ten years to change talent pipeline, you know, that's a long time. So what ? Do you do it ? Yeah, well, i'd argue that goes back to everything else. So so i used to work for josh complement of first round is the second time i'm quoting him this week. So it's pretty funny. So he had this metaphor used, which was he made a team like the team and say, you know it, but i can't go through this investment because it's, like i walked into someone else's kitchen, i love what they have in the fridge and they're making a menu. I just i'm not hungry for right ? I don't. Like what they're making. And so you want to have that expectation that set of lyman. So if someone comes to me and says, i'm building this business here's my growth plan, you know, i can look at that, and i can make my own call on when that means an exit might be when i'm gonna get my return for my organization. Um, and if someone comes to me and says it's going to take ten years, that might be fine, but you want to have that honest conversation because there are investors who do think very long term and the ones who have a shorter horizon, it's just about finding the right partners. So i think when people have very specific matches, they need to make like that you just need to make sure that's one of the top items of conversation before you, you know, decided take someone's money. You know, christine, when you were talking about initially about investing in women in people of color, you are saying that they're undervalued re sources and implicit in that is the fact that you're investing them because they are valuable because you believe that they will return value. To the firm. So how is that not investing them for the primary reason of creating value for the firm ? Right ? Investing in them does great value for my firm. What does not create value for my firm is telling everyone else. I mean, if you invested in the stock market in any way, you have probably heard, you know, some old cliches around information. Asymmetry. Yes. And how if you know something other people don't know, then you were going to make more money. Right ? So right now i know with deep sets of data how undervalued these assets are. The fact that i tell other people means i am willingly giving up my information a symmetry, which is a stupid thing to do if i'm just about the money. Right ? Well, listen to ryan. I heard what you said, okay ? It's, the primary obligation of a firm to create wealth for its shareholders at all costs over any period of time, far into the future. That accomplishes that, given my set of moral obligations. Correct. So how long are you talking about ? Well, i think it often takes just like the little club gets you out of that. This i think it takes decades to solve big problems, you know, later the, you know, huge amounts of time and the problem is you can't really go to any silicon valley investor and say that no, no one will invest in you if you say it's going to take ten years and i don't know if you feel like you're outside of the valley sort of bubble, so i have a lot of ten years to make impact might be different from taking ten years for you to be ableto have some return you ? Yes, because in theory, you could be big enough and have enough revenue to be acquired or go public. You know, one of the many ways you return value back, even if you haven't fully accomplished your mission and even if the market is still unknown fair market you khun cell into right ? I guess i just think that we need to be thinking about solving big problems and having a longer term to do that and then finding the appropriate investor to come along on that journey. And i just talked to so many people that are sort of default going to sandhill road. I'm just gonna go pitch, going to raise money, and and i always say, well, what's your goal like, why did you actually start this ? What is your timeline ? And do you actually feel passionate ? And you want to run this business ? Well, then you probably should maybe consider other types of investors. Those wealthy people, you know, there's, there's, there's, just so many types of capital and it's not default silicon valley. Our motion is talking about the obligation of a firm to create value afraid shareholders. And so when you think about that, i think about the traditional venture capital firm, huh ? Are you saying that, actually, i mean, i mean, hearing implicit in that if you go to sandhill road, you knew it was a snake when you picked it up, you know that we're talking about raising money. Yeah, unfortunately, but the problem is, most people don't know that they need the money and they pick up the snake, right ? So and but i want your perspective on as investors if you think you're outside of that kind of thought bubble no, and we're talking about, like, taking money because it's the only money you could get taking money because it's, maybe it's the biggest chuck you can get. Or maybe it's check that it comes with the promise of being facebook, which actually maybe nobody wants to be any more. I don't know, right ? Well, anti right now, no, no venture firm is gonna make you facebook thing. It's it's, the founders that do that it's the company that does not the investors. So as much as i think were wonderful in value at that's, not us, that does that for anybody. So so and i have actually have several companies that i work with. I'm fortunate to work with where i did not provide the term sheet with the highest valuation, right ? But that aunt were here was mohr interested in some of the other things around the investment ? Whether that was the structure of the deal which gets some attention, but not a lot. But you get more. Or if it was the fact that they knew that someone else was going to be available ? Sort of, you know, nine, two four week days email on lee and i was going to pick up the phone and they had my home phone number. Right, because if the servers are on fire at midnight, please call me like don't wait, i want to know so s so there's a lot of nuance toe, you know, these relationships and who do you want to work with ? And what do you want ? You know, the way that the motion is framed ? Uh, creating wealth is the end goal. And when i talked to founders in my reporting, creating businesses is the end goal, and creating wealth is among the benefits of creating a strong business. And so i'm curious to hear from each of you when you're out investing, what are you talking about ? Creating ? Well, they're creating business, or are they the same ? You know, i'm so driven. Bye our mission at treehouse i have struggled to think outside of that, and sometimes i wish i was more, more, you know, shark ish or or hawkish on this and and maximize shareholder value more. But the truth is, i think the best businesses, our mission driven and they figure that out so that's what ? My default is coming to my side just, um stay right here and i know i know i'm sorry, i can't help it. Yeah, and i agree. I mean, i don't think anyone that would come to me and say, christine, the thing that makes me get up every morning is to make you money like it's someone came to you with that end, right ? And then it would be very difficult for me to think that they're going to be passionate about solving a problem for someone or about, you know, the product they're trying to create, like, just consumed with excitement about the thing they were creating, like that's. What you want to write a check too that's what's going to create wealth for for intel, for me as a shareholder. So yeah, so definitely don't want creating wealth for the shareholders to be what makes the founders get up in the morning. Okay, now we're going to move into the final thie endpoint of our debate, we're going to give each of our debaters ninety seconds to tell us a story to persuade us of their point of view. We're going to start with christine this time because we started with running first. Um, again, that's ninety seconds to give us a story that makes your point on your point of view, right ? Or i was like, it's taking whatever i want so i might actually make an ask of people in the audience i'm gonna like, i used my time. So so i think that i like a woman who thinks she's going to win by so most folks here, if you have a lot of people here who are making product in some way, you know what i mean about getting up in the morning ? And you want to solve that problem and you're going to create well for other folks, including your team, you know, because they owned shares and very that's just going to be a by product of what you're doing now as you get bigger and if you mean the public market that becomes much more important, much more scrutinized but still that's not what puts you up and, you know, gets you up and get you a chair. So one of things that i would ask it, something we did last summer is thinking about how do you invest ? And you know, i'm taking small ryan's business way how do you invest in the next generation of folks around diversity ? Really ? And so we did. Last summer, we took sophomore interns from a few historically black colleges and universities, gave him a job in intel capital for the summer, their junior year, which is coming up. This is our twenty seconds, and the junior there work at one of our tech companies. After they graduate, they can have a choice, and we'll find him a place. And we're going to do that every summer, and we're going to add into the diversity of the tech community. And if everyone just hired one person, that wasn't like some that look just like them that be amazing. Yeah, okay. You're ninety seconds, i think it's great. So, uh, if you're thinking about starting a company, you're running a company. It's very important. You go in with your eyes wide open about what the capital means that you raise and you have to consider it very, very carefully. Raise the right capital. Don't raise the quick capital aunt picked the right investor. I have good investors that are long term thankfully, but it can go very bad still think about that very hard and the second thing i'm going to make an asked you and this is just pure ask is consider hiring underrepresented people of color and women and giving them a chance without a college degree. There is amazing, amazing talent there, so just go look and it's there all right of that was a debate that left everyone sort of on the same side. But now it's your turn audience and this time no one's allowed to not vote. Okay, i'm going to read the emotion and then we're going to vote for and then we'll vote against. So the motion is the primary obligation of a firm is to create wealth for its shareholders. At all cost, if you agree, raise your hands high. Oh, i did terrible, thank you. You lost some. If you disagree, raise your hand. Wow, good job, christine. All right, thank you very much on with that, i will. I will triple the ask, go out and search your communities and reaching the places that you may not have reached to find incredible talent. Thanks, everybody. Thank you.